---
layout: post
title: Setting up a Leaflet map on your webpage
---

  Leaflet is a JavaScript library that allows you to use Open Street Maps on your own webpage.
Both of those components are open source and OSM comes built-in to Leaflet. If you've found this 
blogpost you're probably already familiar with the purpose of leaflet so let's dive right into setting 
up an interactive map of San Francisco!

  First off, you are going to need the following script tags in order to use leaflet on your page:

    <link rel="stylesheet" href="http://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/leaflet/0.7.3/leaflet.css"/>
    <script src="http://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/leaflet/0.7.3/leaflet.js"></script>

  The version I'm using is 0.7.3, but I'd reccommend checking to see if there's been an update before 
you require this into your html. Next you'll want to specify a place for the map to go on your page and
set an id so that leaflet can accurately place it. We'll use 'map' as that seems logical, but feel free to
change that along with in the css and js that comes later if you so chose.

       <style>
        //css -> will span most of the page, if not all
          #map{
            height:680px;
          }
        </style>
        //map location
        <div id="map"></div>

  Let's create our map in a javascript file and breakdown the code so that everything makes sense:

    var map = L.map('map').setView([37.79, -122.42], 14);
    L.tileLayer('http://{s}.tile.openstreetmap.org/{z}/{x}/{y}.png', {
      attribution: 'Jack McDevitt',
      maxZoom: 17,
      minZoom: 3,
    }).addTo(map);
 
  First line defines where it will be sent to (the div we created earlier with id #map)
It also sets the view upon rendering the page to latitude by longitude coordinates in setView.
The number following determines how close in the map will be. The higher the number, the more zoomed in. 

  The second line pulls up the open street map tiles which fit together to make the interactive map. In
this regard, it is not required to use OSM, but I recommend it as most of the leaflet functionality is 
built around how OSM works. Prefacing this query with {z}/{x}/{y} allows the user to interact with the map
in all three dimensions.

  Third line can be your name, your project's name, or of course leaflet.

  You can easily lock how far in and out a viewer can zoom with lines 4 and 5 (maxZoom, minZoom).

  And lastly we want to add all of those tiles to the map variable (and thus div) that we created earlier.

  Last step towards rendering the map on your page is a server. If you've already got one set up, perfect
you're good to go! Otherwise I reccommend a simple gulp server or node is great as well. I will include a
gulp server at the bottom of this page. Happy mapping! 

    //gulpfile. To see the SF map, make sure to type 'localhost:port' in your browser (typically 3000 for port)
    var gulp = require('gulp');
    var serve = require('gulp-serve');
    gulp.task('serve', serve(''));
    gulp.task('serve-build', serve(['', 'build']));
    gulp.task('serve-prod', serve({
        root: ['', 'build'],
        port: 80,
        middleware: function(req, res) {
          // custom optional middleware 
        }
      })
    );
