---
layout: post
title: Getting Started with Ionic
---

Ionic is a great way to write mobile applications, especially if you love angular. Most of the structure
that you'll need to write or functionality that you'll need to edit looks very similar to angular. 

The first thing to think about, which they don't mention on their website, are the requirements for 
ionic. 

(In short, you can check out the list below)

You will need X-Code. This 2.5+GB program is the crux upon which many mobile applications are made and 
a lot of mac's come with it pre-installed. However, if you don't have that ready to go, it'll take a good couple hours to get X-Code downloaded. Go to the App Store and download the most recent version. Ionic requires that you use X-Code version 5+, so make sure you're computer can handle that as well (if you're running less than lion and possibly mountain lion, you'll have a problem running ios-sim, but not ionic itself). 

Secondly you'll need ionic (of course) and cordova. You can run the command they have on their website:

```javascript
npm install -g cordova ionic
```

But test to make sure both were successfully downloaded. Personally I had to re-download ionic
seperately with:

```javascript
npm install -g ionic
```

I've also heard of people who need to sudo install ionic for some reason, so if neither of these are
working try searching for the errors you're getting and the path may lead you to a sudo-install.

Lastly you'll want ios-sim. I say want because while it is unnecessary, it is really cool and a useful
way to test the app you're working on before deploying.

```javascript
npm install -g ios-sim
```

Requirements:
- OS X 10.7 > (depending on if you want ios-sim to work which requires new x-code, ionic will run)
- X-Code 5+
- Ionic
- Cordova
- ios-sim 3+

Once you've got all the requirements ready to go, choose what foundation you want to start with. The
three that ionic offer are blank, tabs, sidemenu. I really like sidemenu, but check out ionic's website for a few examples.

Run the following code to get started:

```javascript
ionic start <your app name here> <your foundation choice here>
```

Once these have been created run the following code from inside your root directory:

```javascript
/*WARNING: running the following code produces a LOT of files. You may want to test it outside of your root directory before fully committing*/ 

ionic platform add <ios or android here> //adds the platform to cordova which does a lot of behind-the-//scenes magic to make your app mobile-ready
ionic build <ios or android here, the same choice as above>

//when you want to have the visual of your app run the next line of code:
ionic emulate <ios or android here>//you can change what model of phone in the settings (iphone6, 5...)
```

And your're ready to go! You are probably looking at all of those files thinking...well where the hell
do I start? The best way to get started is to look through some of the code they have already added (if you chose tabs or sidemenu) and try to understand some of it. Most of this can be found inside the public folder, inside the www folder and then checking out the files in js. If you want to change the css, make sure you edit the style.css file, not the ionic.style.css file until you know what you're doing.

Lastly, be warned, there was a recent update in angular which has been ingrained into ionic. This has
made a handful of libraries created by ionic to make things easier unavailable to you. The basic way of implementing them (such as $ionicGesture) still exists, but the functionality can be hard to make smooth. Hopefully ionic updates them soon!
