---
layout: post
title: Using timbre.js to create tones with javascript
---
    
    The first step you need to start making music with javascript is 
installing timbre itself. You can do that easily with npm:

    npm install timbre 
    //OR if you want it saved as a dependency in your app
    npm install timbre --save-dev

    Second, write a script tag in your main html page to include the information
timbre.js provides. For example:

     <script src="node_modules/timbre/timbre.dev.js"></script>

    If you check out timbre's website, it currently says to simply state 'timbre.js'
in your script tag, but that file won't be found unless you take it out of the node_modules
folder npm installing saves it in.
    
    The next step is requiring it into the section of your app that needs it, for example
app.js. If you don't have the require module installed, you'll have to run:

    npm install requirejs
    //again, OR
    npm install requirejs --save-dev

    And finally utilizing that in your file:

    //Sync
    var T = require('node_modules/timbre/timbre.dev.js');
    //Async   
    var T = require(['node_modules/timbre/timbre.dev.js'], function(){
        //once timbre has loaded do something, like call the rest of the file, for ex:
        func();
    }) 

    As you'll notice there are two options for requiring timbre into you file, but it depends what you want
to do with it. 
    
    Now that you have everything required all you have to do is write the following in your file to get
sound going!

    T('sin', {freq: 440}).play();

    The 'sin' represents the timbre of the sound and the fluctuation of it's pitch around that note. There
are a few other options that timbre.js gives you such as 'saw' and 'osc'.
    The freq: 440 key-value pair inside the object represents the frequency/pitch of the note you wish to
play. In this case an A4, where 4 represents where on a standard piano keyboard that note would be located.
    Lastly, the call to play() allows the pitch you chose to be played through the speakers! As you may
notice, the sound does not stop until you close your running file. We will go over this and much more in the next section of using timbre.js.


